[ESS][8.14] Alert suppression docs for EQL (non-seq) and new term rule types (#5057)
elastic/security-docs: docs/detections/alert-suppression.asciidoc

* <<create-custom-rule,Custom query>>
* <<create-threshold-rule,Threshold>>
* <<create-indicator-rule,Indicator match>>

> * <<create-eql-rule,Event correlation>>

Author: ```suggestion
* <<create-eql-rule,Event correlation>> 
```

=== Configure alert suppression

> You can configure alert suppression when you create or edit a supported rule type. Refer to documentation for creating <<create-custom-rule,custom query>>, <<create-threshold-rule, threshold>>, <<create-eql-rule,event correlation>>, or <<create-new-terms-rule,new terms>> for detailed instructions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can configure alert suppression when you create or edit a supported rule type. Refer to documentation for creating <<create-custom-rule,custom query>>, <<create-threshold-rule, threshold>>, <<create-eql-rule,event correlation>>, or <<create-new-terms-rule,new terms>> rules for detailed instructions.
```

======

. If available, select how often to create alerts for duplicate events:
+
NOTE: Both options are available for custom query, indicator match, event correlation, and new terms rules. Threshold rules only have the *Per time period* option.
+
--
* *Per rule execution*: Create an alert each time the rule runs and meets its criteria.
* *Per time period*: Create one alert for all qualifying events within a specified time window, beginning when the rule first meets its criteria and creates the alert.
+
For example, if a rule runs every 5 minutes but you don't need alerts that frequently, you can set the suppression time period to a longer time, such as 1 hour. If the rule meets its criteria, it creates an alert at that time, and for the next hour, it'll suppress any subsequent qualifying events.
+
image::images/alert-suppression-options.png[Alert suppression options,400]
--

> . Under *If a suppression field is missing*, choose how to handle events with missing suppression fields (events in which one or more of the *Suppress alerts by* fields don't exist):

Reviewer: I don't know if this is helpful for docs, but when I was trying to understand this feature, I found it useful to compare it to the [missing](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/elasticsearch/reference/current/search-aggregations-bucket-terms-aggregation.html#_missing_value_5) option on a terms aggregation:

* The default suppression behavior is effectively `missing: 'other'`: all alerts missing the suppression field will be suppressed into a single "other" bucket
* The alternate suppression behavior is effectively to omit `missing`, causing alerts without the suppression field to be ignored (from the perspective of suppression, i.e. not suppressed).

cc @vitaliidm

Reviewer 2: > The default suppression behavior is effectively missing: 'other': all alerts missing the suppression field will be suppressed into a single "other" bucket

Yes, value would be `null` in this case

> The alternate suppression behavior is effectively to omit missing, causing alerts without the suppression field to be ignored (from the perspective of suppression, i.e. not suppressed).

yes, they will not be suppressed, but still created

Author: @rylnd - I didn't know there was comparable Elasticsearch functionality, that's cool. Do you think we need to improve the current descriptions for the options under the `Suppress and group alerts for events with missing fields` section? If so, do you have any revisions in mind or suppression-related examples that can illustrate how the options work?

@vitaliidm - in the docs for the `Suppress and group alerts for events with missing fields` option, we write that "missing fields get a null value, which is used to group and suppress alerts." I don't fully understand this. Are suppression fields with `null` values added to event documents before alerts are created? Or are event documents treated as though they have the suppression fields (i.e., the event document isn't modified at all), and then grouped and suppressed during alert creation?

Reviewer 2: > Or are event documents treated as though they have the suppression fields (i.e., the event document isn't modified at all), and then grouped and suppressed during alert creation?

they treated as they have suppression field with value `null`

Author: Chatted with @rylnd about his [comment](https://github.com/elastic/security-docs/pull/5057#discussion_r1561826946), and we'll be leaving the docs as they are for now. If we were to expand them in the future, it'd be helpful to add some concrete examples of both options. 

Also chatted with @vitaliidm about how events that are missing suppression fields are treated. 

If an event is missing a suppression field, that information is tracked in the `kibana.alert.suppression.terms.field` alert field and denoted by the field value `null`. For example, if a rule is configured to suppress by the `kibana.alert.rule.name` and `host.name` fields, and the user also selected the option to **Suppress and group alerts for events with missing fields**, the document for the suppression alert will contain the following values within the `kibana.alert.suppression.terms.field` field:

- Unique values for events that contain the `kibana.alert.rule.name` field
- Unique values for events that contain the `host.name` field
- The `null` value for events that don't contain the `kibana.alert.rule.name` or the `host.name` fields

Example of what it might look like in the alert doc:
<table>
<tr> 
 <td> Field
 <td> Value
<tr> 
 <td>kibana.alert.suppression.terms.field
 <td> kibana.alert.rule.name 

host.name
null
</table>

Author: Oops, that was a field name typo. Regardless, thanks for the additional examples and explanation.

=== Configure alert suppression

You can configure alert suppression when you create or edit a supported rule type. Refer to documentation for creating <<create-custom-rule,custom query>>, <<create-threshold-rule, threshold>>, <<create-eql-rule,event correlation>>, or <<create-new-terms-rule,new terms>> rules for detailed instructions.

. When configuring the rule type (the *Define rule* step for a new rule, or the *Definition* tab for an existing rule), specify how you want to group events for alert suppression:
+
--
* Custom query rule: In *Suppress alerts by*, enter 1-3 field names to group events by the fields' values. 
* Threshold rule: In *Group by*, enter up to 3 field names to group events by the fields' values, or leave the setting empty to group all qualifying events together. 
* Indicator match rule: In *Suppress alerts by*, enter 1-3 field names to group events by the fields' values. 
* Event correlation rule (non-sequence queries only): In *Suppress alerts by*, enter 1-3 field names to group events by the fields' values. 
* New terms rule: In *Suppress alerts by*, enter 1-3 field names to group events by the fields' values.

--
+
[NOTE]
======

> If you specify a field with multiple values, alerts with that field are handled in the following way:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
If you specify a field with multiple values, alerts with that field are handled as follows:
```
